The President: Hi, everybody.
One of the most
consequential
responsibilities our
Constitution grants a
President is appointing
a Supreme Court Justice.
The men and women who sit on
the Supreme Court safeguard
our rights.
They ensure that ours is a
system of laws, not of men.
And they're given the
essential task of applying
the principles written into
our founding documents to
the most challenging
questions of today.
So this is a duty I
take very seriously.
It requires me to set aside
short-term politics in order
to maintain faith
with our founders.
And on Wednesday, after
weeks of consultations with
Republicans, Democrats, and
leaders across the country,
I selected a nominee whose
unmatched experience and
integrity have earned him
the respect and admiration
of both parties - Chief
Judge Merrick Garland.
Judge Garland grew up in my
hometown of Chicago, with
parents who taught him to
work hard and deal fairly.
As a young lawyer, he left
a lucrative private firm to
work for half as much
in public service.
Eventually, he oversaw the
federal response to the
Oklahoma City bombing,
working side-by-side with
first responders, victims,
and their families to bring
justice for an
unspeakable crime.
And everywhere he went
during that investigation,
he carried with him in his
briefcase the program from
the memorial service with
each of the victims'
names inside.
For the last 19 years, Judge
Garland has served on what's
known as "the second highest
court in the land" - the
D.C. Circuit Court -
including the last three
years as Chief Judge.
On the bench, he's shown a
dedication to protecting our
basic rights.
A conviction that powerful
voices must not be allowed
to drown out those of
everyday Americans.
An understanding that
justice isn't simply
abstract legal theory; it
affects people's daily lives.
And a spirit of decency,
modesty, and even-handedness
in his work.
Judge Garland is admired for
his courtesy, his devotion
to family, and his
civic-mindedness - for the
past 18 years, he's served
as a tutor for young
students at a local
D.C. elementary school.
During my time as President,
through three separate
Supreme Court appointments,
in conversations with
Republicans and Democrats
alike, one name came up more
than any other -
Merrick Garland.
I understand that we're in
the middle of an especially
noisy and volatile
political season.
But at a time when our
politics are so polarized;
when norms and customs of
our political rhetoric seem
to be corroding - this is
precisely the time we should
treat the appointment of a
Supreme Court justice with
the seriousness it deserves.
Because our Supreme Court
is supposed to be above
politics, not an
extension of politics.
And it should stay that way.
So I ask Republicans in the
Senate to give Judge Garland
the respect he has earned.
Give him a hearing.
Give him an up-or-down vote.
To deny it would be an
abdication of the Senate's
Constitutional duty.
It would indicate a
process for nominating and
confirming judges
that is beyond repair.
It would make it
increasingly impossible for
any President, Republican or
Democrat, to carry out their
Constitutional function.
To go down that path would
jeopardize our system of
justice, it would hurt our
democracy, and betray the
vision of our founding.
I fulfilled my
Constitutional duty.
Now it's time for
Senators to do theirs.
I hope that they take the
time to reflect on the
importance of this
process to our country.
I hope that
they'll act fairly.
And I hope they'll work
in a bipartisan fashion to
confirm Merrick Garland
to the Supreme Court.
That's how we can uphold
our pledge to liberty and
justice for all - for our
time and for generations
to come.
Thanks everybody.
Have a good weekend.